---
title: 6.0.x
lang: en
---

# Change Log (6.0.x)

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/),
and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

::: tip What is a breaking change?

* The original configuration file may not work, for example, if a directive item is removed or renamed.
* It may be necessary to update the build environment, such as installing new dependencies.

:::


## [6.0.3] - 2021-08-02 UTC+0800

### Fixed

* A segmentation fault may be raised when releasing resources from the virtual machine.

***

## [6.0.2] - 2021-08-01 UTC+0800

### Fixed

* The whitelist of URL and Referer in the upper-level configuration cannot be inherited properly.

***

## [6.0.1] - 2021-07-30 UTC+0800

### Deprecated 

* Deprecates the parameters `interval` and `percent` of the directive `waf_cache`, but does not remove them, only that they no longer have any effect. These two parameters will be removed in the future.

### Changed

* Improved performance of CC protection.

### Fixed

* Extreme cases may waste a lot of memory. Thanks to [@RekGRpth](https://github.com/RekGRpth) for their help.


***

## [6.0.0] - 2021-07-21 UTC+0800

### NOTE

* **This release contains some breaking changes.**

* Advanced rules have a high performance cost because the principle is to compile the rules into a series of instructions that are then executed by the VM.

### Upgrade from 5.x.x to 6.x.x

1. Create a new empty file named `advanced` in the rules directory.

2. If the directive `waf_priority` is used, you can delete it or modify it according to the directive in the documentation.

### Pre-built modules

We now provide pre-compiled modules that can be used as long as the following requirements are met.

1. The version of nginx must be the latest stable or mainline version.
2. The C standard library implementation must be the GNU implementation or the MUSL implementation.

> The download script will automatically check if the second condition is met.

You can execute `assets/download.sh` to download the corresponding version of the module and save it to the current directory. Here is the use case.

```shell
# nginx-stable ngx_waf-stable
sh assets/download stable stable

# nginx-mainline ngx_waf-stable
sh assets/download mainline stable

# nginx-stable ngx_waf-beta
sh assets/download stable beta

# nginx-mainline ngx_waf-beta
sh assets/download mainline beta
```

> Each update takes about an hour and a half to compile the module, so it is recommended that you download the updated module more than two hours after the update, otherwise you may download the old module.

### Added

* Advanced rules are supported, see the documentation for details.

### Removed

* Remove mode `COMPAT`, no longer fully compatible with `ngx_http_rewrite_module`.

### Changed

* Updated the directive `waf_priority`, see the documentation for details.

* You can now use all the directives of this module in blocks `http`, `server` and `location`
